README.md, before:

# dlq
*Production code for DLQ Algorithm*

[![Spell Check](https://github.com/Hammerling-Research-Group/DLQ/actions/workflows/spellcheck.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Hammerling-Research-Group/DLQ/actions/workflows/spellcheck.yml)

## Detection, localization, and quantification (DLQ) 

This repository contains code used to estimate methane emission start and end time (detection), source location (localization), and emission rate (quantification) using concentration observations from a network of point-in-space continuous monitoring systems. 

## Installation

Though the current code is still largely in "research code" form, users are still welcome to engage with it. 

To do so, the simplest approach is to ingest the full repo, and work from the toy example: 

```r
library(httr)

response <- GET("https://github.com/Hammerling-Research-Group/dlq/archive/refs/heads/main.zip", 
                write_disk("DLQ.zip", overwrite = TRUE))

unzip("DLQ.zip", exdir = "~/Desktop/DLQ") # or wherever you'd like to store the code
```

The code is separated into two main scripts: 1) `MAIN_1_simulate` runs the Gaussian puff atmospheric dispersion model, and 2) `MAIN_2_DLQ` uses output from the Gaussian puff model to perform DLQ. The `HELPER_*` scripts contain auxiliary functions used in the `MAIN_1_` and `MAIN_2_` scripts.

Inputs to the `MAIN_1_` and `MAIN_2_` files are controlled using two configuration files found in the `input_data` directory:
  - `simulation_config.txt` file controls input for the `MAIN_1_` script
  - `DLQ_config.txt` controls input for the `MAIN_2_` script

The `../Example/MAIN_3_` script generates all results and figures for the accompanying manuscript (Daniels et al. 2024): https://doi.org/10.1525/elementa.2023.00110

By way of example (and to get users started with the code), `input_data` contains the raw concentration data, sensor locations, and source locations from the ADED experiment discussed in Daniels et al. 2024.

Commit message:

Updating installation instructions
moving away from `httr`

README.md, after:

# dlq
*Production code for DLQ Algorithm*

[![Spell Check](https://github.com/Hammerling-Research-Group/DLQ/actions/workflows/spellcheck.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Hammerling-Research-Group/DLQ/actions/workflows/spellcheck.yml)

## Detection, localization, and quantification (DLQ) 

This repository contains code used to estimate methane emission start and end time (detection), source location (localization), and emission rate (quantification) using concentration observations from a network of point-in-space continuous monitoring systems. 

## Installation

Though the current code is still largely in "research code" form, users are still encouraged to engage with it. 

To do so, the simplest approach is to ingest the full repo, and work from the packaged example and sample `input_data`: 

```r
download.file(url = "https://github.com/Hammerling-Research-Group/dlq/archive/refs/heads/main.zip", 
              destfile = "Desktop/DLQ.zip") # or wherever you'd like to store the source code
```

The code is separated into two main scripts: 1) `MAIN_1_simulate` runs the Gaussian puff atmospheric dispersion model, and 2) `MAIN_2_DLQ` uses output from the Gaussian puff model to perform DLQ. The `HELPER_*` scripts contain auxiliary functions used in the `MAIN_1_` and `MAIN_2_` scripts.

Inputs to the `MAIN_1_` and `MAIN_2_` files are controlled using two configuration files found in the `input_data` directory:
  - `simulation_config.txt` file controls input for the `MAIN_1_` script
  - `DLQ_config.txt` controls input for the `MAIN_2_` script

The `../Example/MAIN_3_` script generates all results and figures for the accompanying manuscript (Daniels et al. 2024): https://doi.org/10.1525/elementa.2023.00110

By way of example (and to get users started with the code), `input_data` contains the raw concentration data, sensor locations, and source locations from the ADED experiment discussed in Daniels et al. 2024.
